Hey guys and girls and welcome to a brand
new section! In this section we're going to
be looking at 2.5D games. Now, what does that
mean? Well, imagine games like Trials Fusion,
you know the motorbike game, or Oddworld or
Limbo or Trine. These games, well, I don't
know about Limbo actually, that might be purely
2D but certainly all of the others, Trine,
Oddworld, Trials Fusion, have 3D environments,
but where the player's movement is constrained
to 2 dimensions. So, think of say Trials Fusion
motorbike game, you are in a proper 3D world,
but you are going down a track that you can't
deviate left and right from, at least not
until you fall off your bike. When you fall
off your bike, that particular game allows
the full 3 dimensional movement, and I really
like that. So, I'm going to be encouraging
us to use that sort of thing, to use the constraint
functionality in Unity 5's physics to constrain
our movement, not allowing movement in the
Z, but maybe just maybe when we mess up and
when the player loses control, maybe we re-enable
that movement, so the Physics Engine can take
over and create some havoc. So, that's the
main thing we're going to be covering in this
game. We're also going to be putting in World
Space UI, so that you actually put User Interface
right inside the game world. We will be looking
at UI anchors in a little bit more detail,
just to make sure you really know how to make
a game flex and flow on different mobile screen
aspect ratios. We're going to be looking at
saving your game state, this time, and we're
going to save it to player preferences. Brice
is going to be showing you, in the next section,
which he promises to do, how to save to disk
and also how to be doing network gaming, but
I'm going to show you a way of saving your
game state to the Player Prefs but via an
API or an interface that is going to be compatible
with saving to disk or indeed talking to the
network. So, we're going to be doing that
and a few other things as we go through. So,
the main thing is that it's a 2.5D game. Now,
it's going to be more of a Sandbox this section,
than a complete game. What I'm trying to do
is wean you off just copying the game clones
that I'm making and encourage you to start
really thinking of your own ideas and implementing
them. So, what I want you to do, at the start
of this section, is to think what 2.5D game
you want to make. Now, if you don't have your
own game idea, just pick one. Pick Odworld,
pick a Limbo, pick a Trine, pick a Trials
Fusion, pick any 2.5D game that floats your
boat, and as we go through the section, I'm
going to be teaching you the methodologies
for doing it, and then, I want you to apply
it to the game and share in the discussions,
as you go. Now, one of the things about Unity
that makes it so powerful is its ability to
deliver a game to multiple different platforms,
and we're going to be doing that right from
the start, looking at the Cross Platform Input
Manager Module and really looking at the Virtualization
Layer that you can get between your controllers,
whether it's one of these things, which is
obviously a Playstation 4 Controller or an
Xbox controller or whether it's mouse and
keyboard or whether you're playing it on a
touch screen; we're going to organize the
game, so that when you change the target build
platform then, everything changes for you
and pretty fluidly. So, that's going to be
a lot of fun. The other thing you can do with
a Virtualization Layer, so you have your physical
controls up here, you've got your mouse and
keyboard or you've got your touchscreen joysticks
or you've got your gamepad or whatever, if
you have a Virtualization Layer called the
Cross Platform Input Manager here, then when
you make your calls through that there's two
advantages. One is when you switch platforms,
it still works, as I just mentioned, but the
other thing is with Virtual Controls in this
middle layer we can us that to record player
game play and even play it back. So, this
can be for rolling demos or for replays, etc.
So, that's pretty cool, because we can feed
by software, into the virtual layer, and then,
the game doesn't really know the difference
as to whether it's a player up here manipulating
controls or whether it's your software feeding
a stream of events into the virtual layer.
So, lots of things to explore in this section.
I'd love your feedback as we go through. I
will steer the section to your needs as we
go. It can be more of a Sandbox, but there's
going to be a huge amount of learning in here,
and I look forward to seeing you on the other
side.